## Progressive Versioning Specification

1. A progressive version number MUST contain an indispensable requisite, i.e., central version number, and MAY include an optional pre-release version number and an optional build metadata segment. Once a versioned package has been released, the contents of that version MUST NOT be modified. Any modifications MUST be released as a new version.
2. A central version number, which MUST consist of a foundation version, a major version, a minor version, and a patch version, MUST take the form W.X.Y.Z where W, X, Y, and Z are non-negative integers and MUST NOT contain leading zeroes. W is the foundation version, X is the major version, Y is the minor version, and Z is the patch version. Each element MUST increase numerically.
    - Patch version Z (w.x.y.Z | w > 0, x > 0) MUST be incremented if only backwards compatible bug fixes are introduced. A bug fix is defined as an internal change that fixes incorrect behavior.
    - Minor version Y (w.x.Y.z | w > 0, x > 0) MUST be incremented if new, backwards compatible functionality is introduced to the public API. It MUST be incremented if any public API functionality is marked as deprecated. It MAY be incremented if substantial new functionality or improvements are introduced within the internal code and MAY include patch level changes. Patch version MUST be reset to 0 when minor version is incremented.
    - Major version X (w.X.y.z | w > 0, X > 0) MUST be incremented if any backwards incompatible changes are introduced to the public API. It MAY also include minor and patch level changes. Minor and patch version MUST be reset to 0 when major version is incremented.
    - Foundation version W (W.x.y.z | W > 0, x > 0) MUST be incremented if the architecture, foundation, or framework is significantly refactored, reprogrammed or reimplemented. It MAY also include major, minor and patch level changes. Major, minor and patch version MUST be reset to 0 when foundation version is incremented.
    - Foundation version zero (0.x.y.z) and major version zero (w.0.y.z) are for initial development. Anything MAY change at any time. The public API SHOULD NOT be considered stable.
3. A pre-release version MAY be denoted by appending a hyphen, and a pre-release version number, immediately following the central version number. A pre-release version number is a series of dot separated identifiers that MUST comprise only ASCII alphanumerics [a-zA-Z0-9] and MUST NOT be empty. Numeric identifiers MUST NOT include leading zeroes. Pre-release versions have lower precedence than the associated release versions with the same central version number but without a pre-release version number. A pre-release version indicates the version is unstable and might not satisfy the intended compatibility requirements as denoted by its associated release versions with the same central version number but without a pre-release version number. Examples: 0.0.0.1-alpha, 0.0.0.1-beta.1, 1.0.0.0-0.1.3.7, 1.0.0.0-alpha.7.dev.92.
4. Build metadata MAY be denoted by appending a plus sign, and a series of dot separated identifiers, immediately following the central version number or pre-release version number. Identifiers MUST comprise only ASCII alphanumerics [a-zA-Z0-9]. Identifiers MUST NOT be empty. Build metadata MUST be ignored when determining version precedence. Therefore, two versions that differ only in the build metadata, have the same precedence. Examples: 0.0.0.1-alpha+001, 0.0.0.1+20080808200800, 0.0.0.1-rc+exp.sha.5114f85.